git add
    Add a file to the staging area

git commit
    Commit the files from the staging area to the repository

git status
    Show which files are in the staging area, and which files from the working directory are not part of the repository

git diff 
    Compare two commits, printing each line that is present in one commit but not the other.
    It takes two arguments - the two commit ids to compare.
    git diff considers the first argument as the "original", and the second argument as the "new" version

git diff --staged
    Compare the staging area with the repository

git reset --hard
    Undo all changes in staging area and working directory. There is no turning back, so be careful!!!

git branch branchName
    create a new branch


git clone
    Make a copy of an entire Git repository, including the history, onto your own computer.
    the url of the repository to copy.

git checkout
    Temporarily reset all files in a directory to their state at the time of a specific commit.
    It takes one argument - the commit ID to restore.

git checkout -b newBranchName 
    Create a new branch and checkout it

git merge <branch1> <brach2>
    Merge 2 branches, branch2 get merged into branch1

git branch -d name
    Remove the branch with the specified name

git show commitId 
   Show the changes made in this commit compared to the previous version. This is working even after merging.

git log
    Show the commits made in this repository, starting with the most recent.
    It doesn't take any arguments.

git log --stat 
    more detailed information about which files are changed, how many lines are added or deleted
    
git log --graph --oneline <branch1> <branch2>
    Show visual representation of the commit history within different branches

git remote
    Show all the remote you have created

git remote add remoteName SSH
    create new remote

git remote -v
    Show the remote name and url where I fetch data from and push data to

git push remoteName branchName
    Send the changes to remote

git config --global color.ui auto 
    Get colored diff output

